---
date: 2018-07-07T18:42:28-07:00
draft: false
type: blog
title: Workflow
htitle: Workflow
---

# Workflow

So I'll be an honest fellow, I enjoy working without restraint. Or rather, not
that I necessarily enjoy it, but have made habit of it. And by "without
restraint," I mean I'll hap-hazardly start a new project. I however, don't
always dive head first into a project; I sometimes create a goal and a broad
compass to follow up on. But let's be real, that only gets you so far. And after
perusing my old github projects, not that far.

### What is a Workflow?

If you have your time management down and your work ethic up to par than maybe
this post has nothing of value for you, but I'm writing it for myself anyway.

I was under the misconception until recently that "efficient work is efficient
flow." Basically, if you have your time management down, you got your work down.
And well this isn't the whole picture.

For example, let's say you have a problem of not getting things done well. You
might be tempted to think that time management might be an issue and it might
well be part of the issue. But I feel it is not always the entire issue. If you
don't work on things properly than it doesn't matter if you schedule your things
properly. Instead of disordered anarchy you now have ordered anarchy. How much
more beneficial is that in the end?

What I'm trying to say is, you don't only need a consistent schedule, you need
to be able to handle things efficiently within time allotments.

### Science or Something

Now I'm no expert in whatever I just ranted about, but nobody was ever born one
to begin with. So starting today, I'm going to be following a strict time table
and making the best use out of any tools to bolster my work efficiency. I've
taken three in-the-works projects, that span over quite a few topics in software
development, and plan to see how much I can improve my efficiency in both work
and flow.

It'll be a fun experience and I hope to uncover what really works for me in
regards to getting things done. I'll do my best to share it all along the way.

